OK, so let's jump back over to the business project now, and there's one last set of examples I want
to show, and that is just the fact that everything we just did with methods in terms of member visibility
also applies to fields or instance or variables within a class.
So let's let's take a look at that real quick.
So I'm going to jump back over into the person class here because I think this is kind of a good one
to play with sometimes.
All right.
So let's introduce a couple more fields to the person class.
And if you'll recall when you hear me refer to a field, I'm simply talking about variables that exist
directly under the class.
OK, so like this middle name here?
That is a field, by the way, that also will become what is called an instance variable.
And that just means that when I create an actual instance of this class person or instances, we can
create multiple ones when we create an instance of the person class.
These particular variables, these fields here become unique to that instance.
OK, we'll talk more about that in a subsequent lesson.
All right.
So I'm going to create a couple more here.
We'll we'll go ahead and create some fields for the first name and we'll create one for the last name.
And while we're at, it might as well do the data birth thing kind of like we have done in the past.
Date of birth.
OK, now out of habit, out of a relatively good habit.
I have made each of these variables private.
But we're going to play around with different levels of visibility for these.
So let's start right here in the main method itself and see how we can access these fields.
So down here we are creating a new instance of the person class, and we're storing that reference to
the instance in the P one variable here.
So let's see if we can simply access the first name or any of these fields directly.
I'm going to just put my cursor here and make a new line and then do p one dot first name.
And looks like I can do that here, so I could set this to Jake right there.
OK, so it lets me do that.
Let me let me do one more p one dot last name equals Smith.
All right.
So the reason I'm able to do this in this main method is because the main method is a member of the
class, and as I have stated, private members are always accessible to other members of the same class.
So there's no problem accessing any of these fields down here directly.
However, if we try accessing them from another class, like, I'll go into the news agency here and
let's create a method in here.
Access method.
And let's create a person.
OK, so again, we're creating a new instance of a person right here.
We're actually creating the person and then we're going to store reference to that person in this variable
called person.
Now, let's see what we have access to Person Dot, so here we don't see any of those variables, any
of those fields, first name, last names, not there.
The get middle initial method is here, but not the actual middle initial variable itself, just the
method.
So none of those private fields are accessible here.
And that makes sense, right?
Because comment that out for a moment and that makes sense because we're in a different class.
And so nothing that's private in the person class should be accessible to to this class.
OK.
So let's jump back over to the person class, and now let's change a few things here.
So let's make the last name public, like so and now let's jump back over to news agency and I will
uncomment this.
And now let's see what we have access to.
Well, there it is.
Last name shows up Smith.
So there you go.
If you make a member public, just like with the methods, if you make an instance variable or a field
public, you can access it directly from anywhere.
Now I'm going to stress this is probably always a terrible idea, and we'll learn more about why.
I think I've mentioned it a little bit before.
You want to be careful to limit the amount of access to internal data of a class from outside of that
class.
That sort of defeats a lot of the whole entire purposes of object oriented programming to just allow
any and every other class to be able to directly manipulate the data on a class with no guards of any
kind.
But yes, if you make a field public, you can access it just like this, and then we'll jump back over
to the person class again and we'll make the date of birth.
Protected.
All right.
And then if we jump back over to the news agency, let's see what happens here.
Yet we can access the date of birth.
Now, why is that?
Let me finish.
OK, and again, we're able to access the date of birth, which is protected because we are in the same
package.
The news agency and person are both in the default package and therefore news agency can access the
date of birth being protected.
And I'm not going to go ahead and finish up the last bits because it is totally a repeat of everything
that you saw four methods.
So I just wanted to show that everything we can do for method visibility applies to fields as well or
instance variables as well.
So I think that's going to wrap up this lesson and I will see you in the next one.